Steve Strogatz: Welcome back everybody uh today Steve Strogatz: I have the pleasure of showing you, I think, one of the most beautiful proofs in all of mathematics. It's the proof of Coshi's theorem itself a gigantic result, maybe the biggest result in all of elementary complex analysis. Steve Strogatz: So i'm really looking forward to going through this argument with you. I remember when I was a student, and I saw this proof Steve Strogatz: shown to me by Eli Stein at Princeton. Steve Strogatz: I was so stunned by the argument that I started to spontaneously clap, Steve Strogatz: and I remember um. Both my classmates and Stein looked at me like I was some kind of crazy person, but I just I just think it's an absolutely gorgeous piece of mathematics, and I can't wait to go through it with you. So, all right, let's dive in. Steve Strogatz: So, as I say, it is really one of the biggest results in complex analysis. Steve Strogatz: It was discovered by Gauss actually Steve Strogatz: around eighteen eleven, but, as was often the case with Gauss. He didn't prove it. Ah, sorry he didn't publish it. He kept it, you know, lying around in his desk drawer, I imagine. And years later Koshi discovered the result. And Steve Strogatz: so we call it Kochi's theorem. Steve Strogatz: The proof, i'm going to show you, though, is not kochi's. Proof it's actually a better proof due to a mathematician in Gorsad. Steve Strogatz: It's really magnificent, and it's better than Kochi's argument in that it has fewer assumptions built into it Steve Strogatz: um. In fact, it it's really sort of perfectly minimal. You'll see exactly where the assumptions get used, and there's nothing extra. Steve Strogatz: So I would contrast that with the proofs in our textbook, in Saff and Snyder. So they don't show Gorsat's proof. They show two other proofs, one by a deformation of contours argument, and another by Steve Strogatz: invoking green's theorem from multivariable calculus. But I can't say I really like those proofs so much. Steve Strogatz: They are illuminating in their own way. But they sort of require you to understand the proof. Let's say, of Green's theorem, which, in my experience, a lot of students don't understand that to begin with, so I really think it's worth doing everything from the ground up, and the proof that we'll do here is exactly that. Steve Strogatz: By the way, I will be writing out things in real time with you. I'm just going through some preliminaries here to save some time Steve Strogatz: So but the juicy stuff we will work out in the usual slow, real-time way, all right. But let me remind you a key result that we had from the last lecture, and that we're going to use in this argument is, Steve Strogatz: there's a whole class of integrals that we can instantly say are zero. Steve Strogatz: If we integrate a power, an integer power Steve Strogatz: of Z minus A. Steve Strogatz: So A is just some point in the complex plane, and if we look at Z minus A to some integer power, n. Steve Strogatz: And then integrate that around a closed curve. Any closed curve, Steve Strogatz: Gamma, Steve Strogatz: we'll get zero, Steve Strogatz: and but Steve Strogatz: the two caveats, though Steve Strogatz: this is not the case for n equals negative one. We showed that that was special. We. Steve Strogatz: So when we integrate for the case, n equals negative one, we got two pi I the Steve Strogatz: but we're not going to be dealing with that case today Steve Strogatz: instead, or just Steve Strogatz: focusing on these these other integers, and not equal to negative one. And if we have that Steve Strogatz: oh, by the way, just to remind you. The reason this was true is that these functions Z. A. To the n power we could instantly read off an antiderivative Steve Strogatz: just z minus a to the n plus one over n plus one, just like you would think in ordinary calculus, and the existence of an antiderivative, then, gives us this result that when we integrate around a closed loop we get zero. Steve Strogatz: So that was last time. Now an instant implication of this result is that if we just have positive integer powers or non-negative like, if we have a polynomial, Steve Strogatz: so z to the Steve Strogatz: zeroth power, Steve Strogatz: time's a constant Steve Strogatz: so c. Zero c. One Z to the first power, c. Two z to the second power, et cetera. If we just have these positive integer powers of Z and integrate that Steve Strogatz: we're getting it a sum of many zeros, we still get zero. So the integral of a polynomial is instantly implied to be zero around any closed curve Steve Strogatz: any polynomial integrates to zero. And so that probably gives you a feeling that lots of things will integrate to zero. And that's actually the point. Steve Strogatz: That's what Kochi's theorem says. Steve Strogatz: If we integrate any analytic function f Steve Strogatz: it doesn't have to be a polynomial, could have infinitely many terms in its power, series, like sine of Z or cosine of Z or E to the Z. Any analytic function integrated around a closed curve Steve Strogatz: give zero, but we have to be careful. The right statement is Steve Strogatz: the function. F should be analytic on the closed curve, gamma, and everywhere inside the curve. Steve Strogatz: That's what we need. If we have those conditions. F: Analytic on and inside Gamma. Steve Strogatz: That's enough to conclude that the integral of F will be zero around the closed loop, and it sort of seems astonishing at first, because Steve Strogatz: it feels like we're not assuming very much just analyticity, but nothing else. Steve Strogatz: And yet we'll see that that's exactly enough to give us the conclusion we want. This analyticity assumption is really much more potent than we first realized. That's a theme throughout complex analysis that this very innocent looking assumption of the existence of a derivative Steve Strogatz: turns out to be a tremendous assumption with with staggering implications. And so this is the first of those big implications, and we'll be seeing more of them as the semester goes on. Steve Strogatz: All right. So that's what we want to try to prove. Steve Strogatz: Let me say it a little more precisely so. Here it is. Koshi's theorem. Steve Strogatz: Suppose F. Of Z is analytic in a simply connected region. R. Steve Strogatz: And Gamma is any closed curve in R, then the integral of F around Gamma is zero. The. Steve Strogatz: So here I should remind you about the topological concept of simple connectedness, Steve Strogatz: as you probably have often heard it described it. It means that there are no holes in the region. So i'm showing here some examples of Ah, here's a region R: This blue region doesn't have any holes in it that's simply connected. Here's a region R, which does have a whole. This white region inside that's a hole in the blue, Steve Strogatz: and this is not a simply connected region. Nor is this one which has two holes. Steve Strogatz: So Steve Strogatz: the trouble is that in topology there are many different concepts of holes. And so we should be a little more precise than this. So slightly, more precisely. Steve Strogatz: The region is simply connected. If it has this property that every closed loop in that region Steve Strogatz: can be contracted continuously down to a point can be deformed to a point while staying within the region throughout the contraction. Steve Strogatz: So, for example, if I drew this closed loop I could shrink it down continuously and stay within the blue region and contract it down to a point. Steve Strogatz: But you see that wouldn't be possible in this region, because if I happen to do a loop that encloses the whole, then when I try to shrink it down. I can only go so far before I get snagged. On the whole, Steve Strogatz: I can't shrink it all the way down to a point while remaining in the blue region. Of course, some closed curves can be shrunk to a point like this. One can. Steve Strogatz: That's no problem. But there are some that cannot the ones that enclose the holes. Steve Strogatz: And so, if you have a region like that, it's not simply connected. Steve Strogatz: We'll see after I give the proof of the Steve Strogatz: Kochi's theorem, where we use this assumption. But for now let me just go plowing into the argument. Steve Strogatz: All right. So here it is. At this point we can start writing. Steve Strogatz: So the proof of Kochi's theorem. I'm going to prove it first for a very special closed curve for a triangle, Steve Strogatz: and then we'll build up more complicated curves out of triangles. Steve Strogatz: But for now let's focus on the case of a triangle. Steve Strogatz: All right, so Steve Strogatz: um straw or triangle Steve Strogatz: it doesn't have to be equilateral just any triangle. Steve Strogatz: All right. So this is our closed curve. Gamma Steve Strogatz: and um Steve Strogatz: do it for gamma, Steve Strogatz: a triangle actually to emphasize that it's a triangle. I'm going to call it t Steve Strogatz: there's my closed curve t as I say it's going to be easy to generalize, too. Steve Strogatz: Curves beyond triangles, Steve Strogatz: for. Now let's suppose that the Steve Strogatz: um triangle t Steve Strogatz: as some diameter Steve Strogatz: that we're going to call D Steve Strogatz: and a perimeter. I'll call L. Steve Strogatz: So these are some parameters that quantify the size of the triangle when I say diameter, d. What I mean is Steve Strogatz: that if I pick two points in the triangle, Steve Strogatz: look at how far apart they are. Steve Strogatz: The distance Z minus W. Steve Strogatz: That's always going to be less than or equal to d Steve Strogatz: um Steve Strogatz: for all Z and w Steve Strogatz: on the triangle. T. So t refers to the boundary of this triangular region, and if we have this property that Z minus W. Can be no larger Steve Strogatz: magnitude than D for points on the triangle. That's also going to be true for all points within the triangle, Steve Strogatz: anyway. So that's how far apart points can get, and l Steve Strogatz: the perimeter. I just mean the sum of the lengths of the triangle. Now it seems like at this point to prove Koshi's theorem, Steve Strogatz: that the integral of F. Around this triangle is is zero. Steve Strogatz: I mean, how are you going to do that? We don't know anything about F other than that? It's analytic. Steve Strogatz: That's really all we have to go on. Steve Strogatz: So Steve Strogatz: this is the mystifying thing at this point that somehow Steve Strogatz: you have to use the fact that F. Of Z is analytic Steve Strogatz: um Steve Strogatz: to get the result we want. Steve Strogatz: So watch this argument. It's It's amazing. The first move Steve Strogatz: is stunning. Let's see. Maybe I should copy this triangle. Steve Strogatz: Let's do that. Steve Strogatz: I'll. I'll sue it here Steve Strogatz: and let's duplicate that drag it down here. Steve Strogatz: Okay, So what am I going to do with that Steve Strogatz: well Steve Strogatz: let's Steve Strogatz: bisect the sides of the triangle first. So i'm going to break this proof into many steps. Here's step one Steve Strogatz: bisecticides Steve Strogatz: to make four new triangles Steve Strogatz: by doing the following: Take a point here it is. Bisect this side Steve Strogatz: this side. Steve Strogatz: Uh let me get rid of this little arrow that's in my way, Steve Strogatz: and let's say I bisect this side, Steve Strogatz: and then connect the dots. Steve Strogatz: Dress again, Steve Strogatz: and you see, I've made four triangles now on the original triangle. The orientation was like this Steve Strogatz: own around counterclockwise, as usual. Steve Strogatz: So what I'm going to do is on the inner triangles. Steve Strogatz: I'm. Going to respect that orientation always go counterclockwise. So on this little triangle. We'll go this way on this edge. Steve Strogatz: Try that again. Steve Strogatz: It's insisting on drawing horizontal edges and shred up Steve Strogatz: Okay, like. So in here. We'll go this way Steve Strogatz: here like so; but that innermost triangle Steve Strogatz: also requires to be its edges to be traversed counterclockwise, or at least that's going to be convenient to do, Steve Strogatz: and so let me put in. Steve Strogatz: I'm. Now referring to how I Steve Strogatz: i'm going to integrate around the inner triangle Steve Strogatz: going this way, and you'll notice that those inner edges are getting counted twice, once in each direction. The that's going to be a key. Steve Strogatz: In fact, it lets us observe that Steve Strogatz: that the integral Steve Strogatz: of F. Of Z. Steve Strogatz: Dz around T. Which is what we're interested in, Steve Strogatz: that's just exactly equal to the integral of F. Of Z. Dz around the four little triangles. Steve Strogatz: Here's why I mean if I take the sum the Steve Strogatz: of um. Steve Strogatz: The integrals over all those little triangles like, say, this one Steve Strogatz: got a contribution from this edge, this edge Steve Strogatz: on this edge. Steve Strogatz: But now, if I add the integral around that triangle to the integral around this triangle, Steve Strogatz: the key thing to notice Steve Strogatz: that this edge is being traversed twice, once in each direction, once this way and once this way. The Steve Strogatz: and so those contributions from that are Steve Strogatz: the edge will cancel out. Steve Strogatz: We pointed this out last time. Steve Strogatz: Um, that when you go along an edge in one direction, Steve Strogatz: you get the negative of the integral if you go the other direction, because all the Dzs change sign. So So all those internal edges are going to cancel out, Steve Strogatz: or maybe say it a little more precisely the contributions Steve Strogatz: to the integrals Steve Strogatz: from the um Steve Strogatz: common internal edges. Steve Strogatz: He himself, Steve Strogatz: So that's step one. Now. Steve Strogatz: Um in step two Steve Strogatz: we're going to. Ah, Steve Strogatz: look at the triangle, the small triangle that has the biggest integral in absolute value. Steve Strogatz: You'll see why we're going to build up in any quality that's going to give us the result we want. So in step two, let us choose Steve Strogatz: the little triangle Steve Strogatz: with the largest Steve Strogatz: integral in absolute value in magnitude, Steve Strogatz: and i'm going to call that triangle t one. Steve Strogatz: If there's a tie, you have two triangles happen to have the same magnitude of the integral, and that's the largest pick, one of them arbitrarily doesn't matter which one Steve Strogatz: so. But the point being Steve Strogatz: having chosen the one with the biggest, integral Steve Strogatz: then by the triangle inequality. No pun intended. Steve Strogatz: I can Steve Strogatz: bound Steve Strogatz: the magnitude of my original integral Steve Strogatz: by saying it's less than, or equal to the Steve Strogatz: four times the magnitude of the integral Steve Strogatz: over the little triangle that gives the biggest contribution Steve Strogatz: right? Because by definition, that triangle t one gave me the biggest, absolute, integral. And So if I use that four times Steve Strogatz: um, Steve Strogatz: I guess what I'm saying is, I should think of this integral as the sum of four integrals, meaning each of these over Steve Strogatz: the four little ones in this picture, and then putting absolute value around all that, and applying the triangle inequality, Steve Strogatz: I can't, Steve Strogatz: and then picking the definition, using the definition that t one gives the biggest integral. I get this Steve Strogatz: all right. Hope that makes sense. Steve Strogatz: Um. Steve Strogatz: And now maybe you can start to see the strategy like a maniac. We are going to keep playing this same game again. We're going to keep bisecting all the triangles to make littler and little or triangles. It'll almost remind you of a fractal. So in step three we are going to play the same game Steve Strogatz: by the same game again. But now with triangle t one. Steve Strogatz: Um. Steve Strogatz: So Steve Strogatz: in other words, if I take this picture Steve Strogatz: and copy it, Steve Strogatz: well, actually, yeah, all right, let's do that Steve Strogatz: duplicate. Steve Strogatz: Come on down. Steve Strogatz: So what i'm going to do like. Let's suppose that this triangle in here i'll make it heavy, Steve Strogatz: was the T. One of this one turns out to be the largest. Steve Strogatz: So what I'm going to do at the next stage is again Bisect the sides, Steve Strogatz: pick out the triangle of those four that gives me the biggest, integral, Steve Strogatz: and do the same argument that I just did. Steve Strogatz: I'm going to keep doing that. And at the nth stage Steve Strogatz: i'm going to call the triangle that I've focused on t sub n Steve Strogatz: my pen got a little bigger, maybe I mean this one. So at stage n call the triangle t in the Steve Strogatz: so that is the triangle with the largest Steve Strogatz: absolute integral Steve Strogatz: um Steve Strogatz: of F around it. Steve Strogatz: I'm Steve Strogatz: call that one t seven Steve Strogatz: don't Steve Strogatz: what we're going to get repeating the argument, and if you just look back at what we did Steve Strogatz: here, we got a factor of four by doing one stage of the argument. If we repeat the argument N. Times, we're going to get a factor of four to the N. Steve Strogatz: So, repeating this strategy, we get, Steve Strogatz: Excuse me, integral of the original F. Of Z. Steve Strogatz: Around the original triangle. T. Steve Strogatz: It's going to be less than or equal to four to the N. Steve Strogatz: Absolute value Steve Strogatz: integral around Tian Steve Strogatz: F. Of C. Steve Strogatz: Dt: Steve Strogatz: Okay. Oh, sorry. I need absolute value on this, too. Steve Strogatz: All right. So we have this inequality. Now, what's the strategy of this proof we're going to try to show that this Steve Strogatz: left-hand side Steve Strogatz: is bounded above Steve Strogatz: by this quantity. And we're going to show that that quantity can be made arbitrarily small. Steve Strogatz: Um, Steve Strogatz: which sort of seems amazing, considering that at the moment it's building up the Steve Strogatz: like four to the end it looks like It's getting monstrously large. And yet it's going to turn out that we can take this whole thing and make it smaller than any desired Steve Strogatz: positive number, Steve Strogatz: and that will allow us to conclude that this side is actually zero. Steve Strogatz: So how does that work? Steve Strogatz: Well, Steve Strogatz: um! I think about what's happening in this picture? Steve Strogatz: You know this one Steve Strogatz: where i'm Steve Strogatz: doing my little fractally construction. Try to think about what would happen at the next few stages like, Let's do a few here. Steve Strogatz: The whoops, Steve Strogatz: the dangers of Steve Strogatz: it's new technology. Steve Strogatz: So here's a triangle. I bisect Steve Strogatz: get something else. Steve Strogatz: Bisect again. Steve Strogatz: Pick some other triangle in here like Let's suppose we're always picking the central triangle. Maybe those happen to be the biggest. Just so I can draw something convenient. You see what's happening. It looks like i'm zooming in, Steve Strogatz: you know, on something very tiny. Steve Strogatz: And the argument is that as I keep doing this sequence of triangles, always picking the biggest, the one with the biggest integral inside the previous stage. Steve Strogatz: You see, we've got this shrinking family of triangles, and it looks like it's sort of converging on a point Steve Strogatz: that's actually correct that that we can say, and this is now step four in the argument. Steve Strogatz: He's Steve Strogatz: There's actually a point, Steve Strogatz: in fact, a unique point. Steve Strogatz: You're gonna call it A. Steve Strogatz: It is caught Steve Strogatz: trapped in the infinite nested intersection, Steve Strogatz: meaning, you know, all these common interiors of Steve Strogatz: so it's the intersection, say, of the region inside this triangle intersect with the region inside this triangle, which really is just then that triangle region itself intersect with this region, Steve Strogatz: intersect with that, and so on, Steve Strogatz: the infinite nested intersection of all those triangles. There is a There is a point in there. It's not converging on a whole The Steve Strogatz: there's actually a point in there. Um! That may seem intuitively obvious that there is a there is a point as opposed to some kind of emptiness, but that requires proof, and also that the point is inside the original triangle didn't somehow Steve Strogatz: tragically get outside. It does seem obvious, but it's the kind of thing that does need proof. I'm not going to show the proof of that step. That's something that you would learn in a course in topology or Steve Strogatz: points that topology, or a good course in that like advanced calculus, or something, it uses compactness. Steve Strogatz: So this step requires proof Steve Strogatz: that i'm not going to give. Steve Strogatz: It uses the fact Steve Strogatz: that the triangle and its interior together. In other words, the closed triangular region Steve Strogatz: form a compact set. Steve Strogatz: Ah, Steve Strogatz: so Steve Strogatz: the compactness is exactly what ensures the existence of this point. A. Steve Strogatz: So there are some like in this diagram above. Steve Strogatz: There is a point a sitting in there Steve Strogatz: a is in there, Steve Strogatz: so I could write it this way kind of abusing notation a little bit. Let me think of the region t not just as the boundary triangle, but as the whole region. I'm saying that this A Steve Strogatz: is sitting inside as a subset of Steve Strogatz: dot dot dot, which is a subset of t two, which is a subset of t one Steve Strogatz: which is a subset of the original T. Steve Strogatz: And so, if you wanted to visualize it, imagine like at the end stage where N. Is some large number, maybe You've done ten or one hundred iterations of this. What would you see if you could zoom in? You know I could play sort of blowing in blowing up this picture Steve Strogatz: What? You would see, Steve Strogatz: some nothing that amazing. You would just see something that looks Steve Strogatz: like a little triangle with a point a inside. Steve Strogatz: This is triangle. Tn: Steve Strogatz: Okay. Still not clear how we haven't used analyticity. Yet all we've done is this crazy triangle construction so far? Steve Strogatz: Stand by because we're building to a climax. Steve Strogatz: So now step five. Steve Strogatz: Can we estimate Steve Strogatz: if you go back to this step right here Steve Strogatz: we get this key inequality. Maybe i'll put that in a box. Steve Strogatz: I've got this inequality here in the blue Box. I want to try to estimate how big Steve Strogatz: this Steve Strogatz: integral B Steve Strogatz: over that tiny triangle, Tn. Steve Strogatz: And is it going to be tiny enough Steve Strogatz: to offset is growing exponential? Steve Strogatz: All right. So this is what we want to estimate. How big is this integral? Over the tiny, tiny triangle. Tn: Steve Strogatz: All right. Well, let's see, Steve Strogatz: all right. Well, of course, the answer is, Yes, we can Steve Strogatz: um, because tn is so tiny, Steve Strogatz: So what can we say about what's going on there on Tn on Tm: Steve Strogatz: We can approximate our function. F of Z. Steve Strogatz: This is where we're going to use analyticity. Steve Strogatz: We can write F of Z Steve Strogatz: equals Steve Strogatz: now, not just approximately that actual equality F. Of Z equals. Steve Strogatz: Yes, Steve Strogatz: at this point a inside the triangle Steve Strogatz: plus Steve Strogatz: f prime at a Steve Strogatz: Excuse me, Steve Strogatz: f prime at a times z minus a Steve Strogatz: plus Steve Strogatz: a term that i'm going to call epsilon of z Steve Strogatz: times Z. Steve Strogatz: Mine is a Steve Strogatz: that's exact. In fact. Think of this as a definition of this function. Epsilon, Steve Strogatz: where here's the cool thing. Epsilon of Z Steve Strogatz: is a function Steve Strogatz: that tends to zero Steve Strogatz: as z approaches a, Steve Strogatz: which is why i'm calling it epsilon. You should think of it as very small. Steve Strogatz: Um, Steve Strogatz: but actually it tends to zero as Z goes to A. Now. All right, so let's unpack this. I mean, because this is the key step right here. Steve Strogatz: Ah, excuse me, I want to add some pages. Steve Strogatz: Stay here, Steve Strogatz: he add a few pages. Steve Strogatz: Yes, Steve Strogatz: this is a key step right here this this line, Steve Strogatz: because this is exactly the statement that F is analytic. Steve Strogatz: Um. Steve Strogatz: This is where we're using analyticity, Steve Strogatz: using the hypothesis that F. Of Z Steve Strogatz: is an analytic function. Steve Strogatz: Um. Steve Strogatz: So let's see how Steve Strogatz: I mean how exactly I mean it looks a little weird the way it's written out. But if you solve for Epsilon of Z. The way I've defined it. Steve Strogatz: It'll make more sense Steve Strogatz: just solving for epsilon of Z. Here's what it is. It's F of z Steve Strogatz: minus f of a Steve Strogatz: all over Z. Minus a Steve Strogatz: minus Steve Strogatz: F of a, Steve Strogatz: and Steve Strogatz: of course the expression here Steve Strogatz: difference quotient, we know, converges to F prime of A. Steve Strogatz: As the approach is A. Steve Strogatz: We know that that limit exists because F is assumed to be analytic, Steve Strogatz: and it's also assumed to be analytic on the triangle and everywhere inside the triangle. Steve Strogatz: And so we know that F prime of a does exist at this point A is inside the triangle, and that F. Prime is defined there. Steve Strogatz: I mean that this one that exists, Steve Strogatz: and also Steve Strogatz: that the limit of this expression equals the limit of this expression as our equals. This constant Steve Strogatz: Z approaches A. I call this a constant, because this doesn't have any z dependence. It's whatever that number f prime of a is. Steve Strogatz: So. Steve Strogatz: The key thing here is that the smallness of Epsilon, the statement that Epsilon goes to zero as Z. Goes to A is the statement that F is differentiable at the point A. Steve Strogatz: That's all. And we we know that this differentiability holds because we've assumed A is our F is analytic. Steve Strogatz: So, anyway, Steve Strogatz: the the key point being that this expression, Steve Strogatz: this epsilon is small. Um for z close to a Steve Strogatz: since F is analytic, Steve Strogatz: all right. So we've now used the analyticity and watch what happens. Steve Strogatz: Now I always remember the reason i'm doing this is, I want to calculate or estimate. F. Of Z. Steve Strogatz: Dz. Around this tiny triangle Tn, Steve Strogatz: and so let's Steve Strogatz: integrate the three terms. Steve Strogatz: Here they are. This is a constant. Steve Strogatz: This is a constant number times the simple polynomial Z. Minus A. Steve Strogatz: And then there is this kind of uncontrolled thing, Steve Strogatz: which is a Z minus a Steve Strogatz: times a small function, Epsilon. Steve Strogatz: And even though I say it's uncontrolled, it's under enough control that we'll get what we want. So watch we're going to integrate each term. Here we go, integral of Steve Strogatz: F of A. Steve Strogatz: Dc. Steve Strogatz: Plus. Steve Strogatz: This is all over Tian, Steve Strogatz: plus the integral over T. N. Steve Strogatz: Of f prime of a Steve Strogatz: Z. Minus a, Steve Strogatz: you see, Steve Strogatz: and finally plus Steve Strogatz: integral over tn of epsilon z times the Steve Strogatz: Z. Minus a Steve Strogatz: Dc. Steve Strogatz: So that looks like a lot, but actually keep in mind that A is just some number, and F of A is also just some complex number. These are constants. And so this comes outside, if you like. Steve Strogatz: The integral. Steve Strogatz: So really, what we're doing is just integrating Dz around a closed loop. Steve Strogatz: And here's where I want to remind you that Steve Strogatz: of this fact. Steve Strogatz: So I mentioned at the very beginning of the lecture. Let me go back here, Steve Strogatz: this one, Steve Strogatz: that if I integrate a power integer power of Z or Z, minus a constant Steve Strogatz: Z, minus A. Any. Any integer power of a around a closed loop gives zero Steve Strogatz: by that antiderivative argument, because this has an antiderivative it, Steve Strogatz: you know. Again, not worrying about this case, which isn't going to come up here, Steve Strogatz: we we get zero for such integrals. Steve Strogatz: And so our first two integrals below Steve Strogatz: in the stage that we're at right here. Steve Strogatz: This is going to integrate to zero Steve Strogatz: by the argument that I just made. Steve Strogatz: And similarly, when I integrate this function Steve Strogatz: Z. Minus a around a closed loop, it has an antiderivative of Z, minus a all squared over two Steve Strogatz: around a closed loop that integrates to zero. Steve Strogatz: So that term is gone as well. So Steve Strogatz: and that's looking pretty nice, because now, Steve Strogatz: right I mean. So, as I say, these are the Steve Strogatz: special cases Steve Strogatz: us Steve Strogatz: integral of Z. Minus A to the N Steve Strogatz: around a closed curve. Steve Strogatz: It's zero, Steve Strogatz: so i'm just left with that third Steve Strogatz: um Steve Strogatz: integral to deal with. Steve Strogatz: So these these were the n equals zero, and n equals one case. Steve Strogatz: All right. So what do we have? Steve Strogatz: We have as our conclusion at this stage. The integral around this tiny triangle of F of Z. Steve Strogatz: Dc. Steve Strogatz: Is Steve Strogatz: the integral of epsilon of Z. Steve Strogatz: C. Minus a Steve Strogatz: Dc. Steve Strogatz: I'm. Sorry the original one was not around T. And this is just around the big triangle, Steve Strogatz: the Steve Strogatz: Oh, I'm: sorry. I do mean Tian. I do mean Tian. Steve Strogatz: My bad. Steve Strogatz: Okay, Steve Strogatz: yeah, right. And that was the point that we're trying to estimate this integral around the tiny triangle. So let's look at its magnitude. Steve Strogatz: It's exactly the magnitude of this. Steve Strogatz: And now what to do? Well, we don't know much about Epsilon, except that it's small, but that's enough to give us what we want, because in the last lecture I introduced this inequality that's crude but effective, that we call the Ml. Bound, Steve Strogatz: and so now is the time to wheel out the Ml. Bound Steve Strogatz: that's step six. Steve Strogatz: The Ml. Bound Steve Strogatz: would tell us that. So we're trying to estimate. How big can this be? Steve Strogatz: It tells us that Steve Strogatz: um Steve Strogatz: integral over tn Steve Strogatz: epsilon z Steve Strogatz: The minus a Steve Strogatz: dz in magnitude Steve Strogatz: is less than or equal to. So what do I need to do? The Ml. Bound, says you've got to take the max of the integrand in absolute value. Steve Strogatz: That's your M. Steve Strogatz: Times the length of the Steve Strogatz: contour of integration. That's your L. Steve Strogatz: All right. So what is the Max? Let's just write it all down here. It would take the Max Steve Strogatz: for all z Steve Strogatz: contour of integration. Tn. Of the Steve Strogatz: Epsilon of Z. Steve Strogatz: And I also want to take the max of this part of the integrand Z minus a That's where the diameter comes in. Steve Strogatz: What's the Max of Z. Minus a for all z's on the boundary on the triangle. Steve Strogatz: The A is somewhere on the interior, Steve Strogatz: or even if we're on the triangle itself Z. Minus a and magnitude can't be bigger than the diameter of that little triangle, so we can just put in a bound here Steve Strogatz: diameter of Tn Steve Strogatz: that now takes care of this term. And then finally, we have to talk about the length of Tn: Steve Strogatz: so that comes in as well. That's our L. Steve Strogatz: Okay, So diameter of Tm. And then times the length of Tn: Steve Strogatz: Okay, and Steve Strogatz: well, Steve Strogatz: what have we done to construct? Tn: We just bisected the sides of earlier triangles. So, in fact, if you look at the construction, Steve Strogatz: the diameter is going to be going down by a factor of two Steve Strogatz: with every bisection, and so is the length of the triangle. Steve Strogatz: Um, Steve Strogatz: there is, Steve Strogatz: we have here the Max, Steve Strogatz: the element of Tn. Steve Strogatz: Of Epsilon, of Z. Steve Strogatz: This diameter can be compared to the diameter of the original triangle by having gone down by a factor of two to the N. With each Steve Strogatz: after n iterates, and the length has also gone down by that same factor, two to the N. Steve Strogatz: Um, since Steve Strogatz: tn was constructed, Steve Strogatz: I repeated. Steve Strogatz: Um by section of T. Steve Strogatz: Okay. And now we're almost done Step seven is to put everything together Steve Strogatz: and watch how amazingly this all cancels out. Steve Strogatz: Take the integral of F around our original triangle. Steve Strogatz: Look at its magnitude. Steve Strogatz: We have argued that this is less than four to the N. Steve Strogatz: Times. Steve Strogatz: The magnitude of the integral over the Steve Strogatz: triangle Tn. Defined as the one with the biggest integral Steve Strogatz: at its stage of bisection. And by what we've just argued, Steve Strogatz: there was this fantastic cancellation here. This I mean, as you look back at what makes this proof work? It's the exact zeroness of these two terms, due to the antiderivative condition and the fact that we can represent F. In this way by analyticity, Steve Strogatz: we get exactly the cancellation we need, leaving us only with this little term and watch Steve Strogatz: Here we have four to the end Steve Strogatz: magnitude. Steve Strogatz: Epsilon Z. Steve Strogatz: Z. Minus a to sorry integral over Tn. Steve Strogatz: P. Z. Steve Strogatz: Which we just argued Steve Strogatz: worse. Steve Strogatz: Here we've estimated this integral Steve Strogatz: right here. So let me copy all of this expression. Actually, maybe i'll literally copy it. Steve Strogatz: Let's do that. Steve Strogatz: You can see I like using my ipad. Steve Strogatz: We'll say duplicate. Steve Strogatz: Come on down here Steve Strogatz: and look at that four to the end, canceling with those two factors of two to the N. Steve Strogatz: Isn't that nice. Steve Strogatz: So zap, Steve Strogatz: zap, Steve Strogatz: zap, Steve Strogatz: and Steve Strogatz: um. Steve Strogatz: So we have two constants, D and L, and then the Max of Epsilon, Z. And now the final stage in the argument is, Just think about what happens as n gets large. Steve Strogatz: So, as n goes to infinity, we know that the maximum value Steve Strogatz: it's Steve Strogatz: uh epsilon of Z Steve Strogatz: goes to zero, Steve Strogatz: because that's what we said. This function Epsilon Steve Strogatz: goes to zero as Z approaches A, and as the triangle shrink, all the points on those tiny triangles are approaching A. So we can make this Max as small as we want; that is, if you fix some tiny number, call it Delta, or whatever you want. Steve Strogatz: Um, Steve Strogatz: you can, by picking, and large enough. You can make this Max less than any pre-assigned positive number Delta Steve Strogatz: by the analyticity Steve Strogatz: as we argued earlier, Steve Strogatz: so we can make the right-hand side of this inequality. Right here Steve Strogatz: we can make this right-hand side arbitrarily small by making n as large as needed. Steve Strogatz: But the key thing is that this left-hand side does not depend on n it doesn't know anything about our bisection procedure it's just some number Steve Strogatz: it's a non-negative number. It's a magnitude Steve Strogatz: but whatever this non-negative number is, it's less than any prescribed positive quantity? Steve Strogatz: So it has to be zero. Steve Strogatz: And that's it Steve Strogatz: the left-hand side is independent of N. Steve Strogatz: So it must be equal to zero, which is what we're trying to prove. Steve Strogatz: And that lady and gentlemen is Gorsa's proof of of Kochi's theorem, at least for the case of a triangle. Steve Strogatz: All right, so let's take a little breath. Steve Strogatz: Very good, Steve Strogatz: and Steve Strogatz: I guess I want to just make one little remark before I sign off. Steve Strogatz: Which is, Steve Strogatz: where did we use the simple connectedness, you know, like, Why was that important? Steve Strogatz: That looks like n factorial. I see up here, I think i'm going to delete that where did we use the the Steve Strogatz: simple connectedness just to make sure that that's clear to you? Steve Strogatz: Let's see I can delete this page Steve Strogatz: and this one. Steve Strogatz: Yeah. So I pre-wrote out a few little comments about that. Where did that come in? Steve Strogatz: But the reason we need the simple connectedness assumption. Remember, we said F. Was Steve Strogatz: defined to be analytic throughout a simply connected region. Steve Strogatz: If we didn't have that simple connectedness assumption we could get into trouble because we could have an example like this. Look at this blue region, R. Steve Strogatz: That that region R. Is not simply connected. It has a massive hole in it. Right here Steve Strogatz: it happens that the origin is sitting inside that hole. The origin is not in the blue region, but it is in the whole. Steve Strogatz: Now, Steve Strogatz: if we integrated Steve Strogatz: the function one over Z, Steve Strogatz: we integrated one over Z around a closed curve. Gamma Steve Strogatz: that encircles the origin Steve Strogatz: we showed in the last lecture that that gives us two Pi I Steve Strogatz: that would look like a contradiction. Maybe you might think Takoshi's theorem, Steve Strogatz: because, after all, I mean our function F. Of Z equals one over Z Steve Strogatz: perfectly analytic in the blue region. No problem there. Steve Strogatz: Yeah. Steve Strogatz: The integral of F Steve Strogatz: around Gamma is not zero. Steve Strogatz: So what's going wrong. And the problem is, Steve Strogatz: how is this possible? It's because this function F. Of Z. Equals one of Z. Although it's analytic in the blue region. It is not analytic everywhere inside, Gamma, that's the problem. Remember, I said, you want F to be analytic on and inside Gamma. Steve Strogatz: That is not the case here, because F is not analytic at this point Zero. That lies inside Gamma. Steve Strogatz: So that's the trouble. Steve Strogatz: When you have a non simply connected region, you can have points that cause difficulty that are not in the region yet are inside the curve. Gamma. Steve Strogatz: So our simple connectedness assumption in Koshi's theorem, Steve Strogatz: the hypotheses of Kochi's theorem excludes examples like this as we need to. Steve Strogatz: Okay, Steve Strogatz: So I think that's all I want to say about Kochi's theorem. I hope you like that proof. Incidentally, maybe it's worth saying one little thing, which is that? Why, our triangles enough, Steve Strogatz: I mean. Once we have the result for a triangle. Steve Strogatz: Then, you know, I can build up more complicated shapes Steve Strogatz: by adding more triangles. Whoops. Steve Strogatz: So you know, like, Think of a curve That's that's sort of complicated and polygonal. Steve Strogatz: I can prove Koshi's theorem for a curve like that, Steve Strogatz: because I can build up this region inside out of triangles, Steve Strogatz: and since I have Koshi's, theorem for triangles, Steve Strogatz: I have all these internal edges Steve Strogatz: with that kind of cancellation argument that we made earlier. Steve Strogatz: You can prove Kochi's theorem for any polygonal curve by this kind of argument, and then, finally, for any smooth curve that can be well approximated by a polygonal curve, Cauchy's theorem will follow there. So first a sufficiently nice curve that is approximable by polygonal curves. Steve Strogatz: Kochi's. There are all Steve Strogatz: all right, so I hope I haven't lost you in the details in that you were able to enjoy. What a what a really magnificent proof! That was! Steve Strogatz: Okay, All right, Thanks for watching. 